

FAQ bases on Scrap Buyers meet during the Grievance Redress Camp held on
30.10.2021
Query 1
Reply
I have faced a problem with auction of CVD Delhi Cantt (location Meerut). I have
purchased  a  vehicle  from  the  auction  and  I  did  not  get  the  form  no  21  from  the
depot on the day of delivery. We receive form no 21 for every vehicle from every
depot, then why did not Meerut depot gave us that paper. I am facing a big problem
to  register  that  vehicle  now.  Kindly resolve  the  issue.(Query  raised  byDIVINE
METALS. HOSHIARPUR, Punjab)
Your query is related to a specific auction of NRO. We have forwarded your query
to NRO. They shall revert your shortly.
Query 2
Reply
Suggestion from buyer for uploading of pictures and at least photos in high quality
for every scrap items being put for sale in MSTC’s portal:(Query raised byNoor
Hasan Trading Corporation, Mumbai)
MSTC had a opinion that photos might lead to misleading interpretation as most of
the  items  being  auctioned  are  scrap  material  which  are  kept  under  open  to
environment  condition,  the  condition  and  situationof  the  material  are  prone  to
change from the time photos had been taken till actual delivery actually takes place.
In some of the cases where seller emphasizes on display of photos, MSTC displays
the photos.
It  may  be  noted  that  MSTC  desires  that  since  the  materials  being  auctioned  are
scrap, buyer may bid in the auction only after inspection of the material.
Query 3
Reply
Pre BidEMDmay be allowed for adjustment with sale value.Keep a single Punjab
National  Bank  account  for  prebidEMDpayment  every  time.  Return  the  pre  bid
amount  in  ledger  only,  not  in  bank  account.  Refund  the  pre  bid  amount  of
unsuccessful  bidders  as  soon  as  the  auction  is  over.EMDfor  successful  bidder
shouldbe accepted in sellers account only. Please inform your finance department
fast forEMD.:(Query raised byNoor Hasan Trading Corporation, Mumbai)
Treatment of Pre BidEMDis done differently for various e-auctionsin consultation
with the seller, henceone system cannot be implementedfor all matters. Pre Bid of
the  unsuccessful  buyer  is  returned  to  the  buyer’s  ledger  itself.EMDpayment  is
treated differently by each seller.
Query 4Deliver AL same day theEMDhas been paid.  Inform every auction in-charge to
work faster and attend calls. Send the AL to the sellers as soon as possible to let
them  know  that  buyer  has  made  theEMDpayment.  The  amount  entered  in
acceptance  letter  i.e.  theEMDamount  should  only  be  given  directly  to  sellers
account only. Mstc should not keepEMDamount with them self for entire week.
Issue AL fast.(Query raised byNoor Hasan Trading Corporation, Mumbai)
Generally  AL  is  issued  the  same  dayand  EMD  forwarded  to  seller  within  1-2

Replyworking  days.Specific  e-auctiondetails  are  required  to  understand  the  delays  if
any.
Query 5
Reply
Issue  DO  the  same  day balance  amount  is  paid.  Inform  sellers  regarding  balance
amount  paid  by  buyer.  Interact  faster  with  your  finance  dept.  Mstc  should  only
accept  the  service  charges  and  let  sellers  upload  their  account  details  for  balance
amount  payment.  Issue  DO  faster.  Mstc  should  transfer  balance  amount  to  seller
and  get  their  finance  dept  updated  as  soon  as  possible.  Take  actions  fast.(Query
raised byNoor Hasan Trading Corporation, Mumbai)
Generally  DO  is  issued  the  same  day  Specific  e-auction  details  are  required  to
understand the delays if any.
Query 6
Reply
Auction in-charge should pickup calls. Make all your landline numbers work. Treat
buyers properly. Don’tallow fake sellers to upload upcoming auctions. Fine sellers
if their auction doesn't go live on day allotted to them. Seller should upload proper
details and photo videos of items strictly. Enable online payment for Pre-bidEMD.
Return Pre-bidEMDin ledger only not in bank account. Thank you.(Query raised
byNoor Hasan Trading Corporation, Mumbai)
All officers are being advised to attend to calls. MSTC does not allow fake seller for
any sale of material.If any issue has taken place in any e-auction/Office, the details
are needed to resolve.
Query 7
Reply
We have mailing and calling forEMDrefunds for last 13days but we are not getting
any response and MSTC portalalso not showingEMDrefunds. Only show the link
Cancel  Cheque  and  bank  mandate  form  but  we  have  done  also  before  13  days.I
Request you Resolve ASAP and RefundEMDbalance. best Regards ASK Digital
Life 8104354144. (Query raised byASK DIGITAL LIFE, Thane, MH)
e-auction detailsare required to resolve the query.
Query 8
Reply
Your  auctions  process  continues  for  too  long  that  runs  till  late  night  following
suggestions:-1)  There  should  be  a  minimum  START  PRICE  instead  of  Rs.  1.  2)
There should be a minimum Increment depending on the value of LOT (ex-BSES
YAMUNA EA 38506) as it will take less time & auction will be over soon. 3) there
should be a limit to number of extensions.(Query raised byGIRDHAR TRADERS,
New Delhi)
e-auction time is mentioned in the catalogue, thereafter it may go into extension. If
there is competitionthe e auction cannot stop.However, your suggestion is welcome
and will be forwarded to concern office.
Query 9
Reply
An option for Mob No updating should be provided in the login of the buyer so that
the  same  may  be  updated  in  case  of  any  emergency.(Query  raised  byMD
PRODUCTS, HATHRAS, UP)
Recently a facility has been provided in the login of the buyer for updating of their
mobile number.
Query 10After getting the DO from MSTC, We are not getting delivery in time as mentioned
in MSTCDO. If we asked the auctioneer, they are telling you check with the seller.
After  paying  the  full  bid  value  and  MSTC  service  charge.  So,  We  request  you  to

Reply
update this to avoid this issue in future for delivery. Our grievance is more but the
space  providedis  very  very  less.  Thanks.(Query  raised  bySrisaienterprises,
Chennai, TN)
e-auction details are required to resolve the query.
Query 11
Reply
While  quoting  in  Tender  the  bid  value  mentioned  is  not  showing  in  alphabetical
amount. For Ex: bid value-300001/-after give bid in tender it is not showing as
three  lakhs  and  one  rupee  while  submission.  If  it  is showing means  we  can  avoid
wrong bid. Hence, We request you to consider this for development purpose.(Query
raised bySrisaienterprises, Chennai, TN)
Already implemented.
Query 12
Reply
My  phone  is  not  attended  by  dealing  Officer.  I  called  him  several  times,  I  have
purchased a scrap lot from HPCL Bahadurgarh having id 17180. (Query raised by
RAJA STONE CRUSHING MILLS, BHIWANI, RAJ)
In  case  dealing  officer  is  not  available  on  phone,  you  may  contact  theconcern
RM/BM or send an e-mail to raise your concern.
Query 13
Reply
Why do auction takes so much to be in STA ? Almost it takes 1 month to know if we
get the auction or not ! Moreover do  government really think market would be so
stable for 2 months ? I wanna request it as a buyer please make this process fast. It
would help small business to grow really fast We grow we make our country grow
with us Thank you. (Query raised bySHRI RAM METAL, panipat, Haryana)
The suggestion of buyer to speed up the STA decision is a genuine concern,MSTC
shalltake up the matter with sellers to take the decision faster.
Query 14
Reply
We have to lift material from Dappar FAD in ref to Aucton No. MSTC/CDG/AD
DAPPAR/11/DAPPAR/21-22/16115.  But  we  have  not  received  our  ID  Card  from
NRO  MSTC.  We  have  emailed  on  2/10/21  to  NRO  with  many reminders  But  till
date no reply has been given by MSTC NRO Kindly do the needful so we can lift
material in time.(Query raised byAGGARWAL ALLOYS,Ludhiana, PB)
The office had been advised to issue the I-card.
Query 15
Reply
We are in receipt of Acceptace letter in ref to  Auction No. MSTC/JPR/24 FIELD
AMMUNITION DEPOT/10/C/O 56 APO/21-22/18735 and we have to deposit S/D
of  Rs  71600/-But  we  are  unable  to  generate  RTGS  Form  from  MSTC  website.
Kindly do the needful So that we can deposit Security deposit in time. (Query raised
byAGGARWAL ALLOYS,Ludhiana, PB)
Our Jaipur officer has confirmed that the issue hadbeenresolved at Jaipur Branch.
The bidder contactedMSTC’sJaipur Branchovertelephoneandour offceassisted
him  to  generate  challan  for  the  SD  payment  for  eA  18735  dated  16.10.2021.  The
Acceptance Letter was issued to the bidder and they have made balance payment too
against which Delivery Order has already been issued to the bidder on 01.11.2021.
The  reason  for  non  generation  of  challan  was  browser  incompatibility  which  was
solved and the bidder was advised to use IE accordingly.
Query 16Myamount of 2,43,900 ofEMDis strukin MSTC account from past 2 months and

Reply
not   credited   in   my  account.(Query   raised   byBISMILLAH   ENTERPRISES,
vijayawada, AP)
e-auction details are required to resolve the query.
Query 17
Reply
OTP  Enable  ID  is  verytypical  to  operate.  Its  should  be  DSC  operated  more
conveniently. Due to mobile network connectivity some times not easy to get OTP.
(Query raised byTRUE VALUES TRADING CORPORATION, Agra, UP)
Implementation of DSC will be more cumbersome.This is as perpolicy.
Query 18
Reply
It has been seen several times that seller mentions about the location of material. but
at the time of delivery of good material are found in 2 different locations. For this
buyer  have  to  incurred  losses  due  to  non  disclosure  of  other  location  at  the  time
Auction. Hence requesting you develop a system which restricts the seller to do any
wrong  things.  Because  buyer  do  not  want  to  mess  with  seller.(Query  raised  by
Arjun Iron And Metal,Howrah, WB)
Customer should inspect thematerial before participation. In case any discrepancy is
observed the same may be brought to the notice of the MSTC official.
Query19
Reply
We need bid history list to verify whether the bid payment amount has been taken as
final amount or any kindof mistakes has been take place so we need bid history list.
(Query raised byNITHIYA KALYANI TIMBER INDUSTRIES)
During e-auction bidders can check the bid amount of last 10 bids. Also there is an
option to check in the bidders login to check whether he is H1 or not.
Query 20
Reply
SOME   GOODS   WERE   NOT   COMES   UNDER   AUCTION,   INSTEAD   OF
AUCTION SOME GOODS WERE SOLD DIRECTLY WITHOUT AUCTION. IN
AUCTION SOME CFS OFFICE HAS TAKE GOODS FROM THE COINTAINER
THEY STEEL SOME PEICE OF GOODS FROM THOSE COINTAINERS.(Query
raised byNITHIYA KALYANI TIMBER INDUSTRIES)
Bidders  are  encouraged  to  inform  MSTC  where  parallel  e  auctions  are  being
conductedas MSTC may have an agreement with such Sellers.
Query 21
Reply
How can I upload my e-waste PCB documents? There is no option for uploading e
waste  documents.  Please  look  into  it  and  revert  as  soon  as  possible.  thanks,  y  s
enterprise/265715. (Query raised byY s enterprises,THIRUNELVELI, TN)
You are requested to send your PCB document to the dealing officer whosename is
mentioned  in  the  auction  catalogue.  The  dealing  officer  shall  get  the  PCB  details
updated.However, there will be a position to upload the documents also shortly.
Query 22
Reply
Sir,  We  have  another  firm  ARSH  ENTERPRISES  (70825).  which  is  de-activated
now.  We  bid  for  eauction  no.  MSTC/LKO/UPSRTC/332/LUCKOW/20-21/36235
from this firm but seller not giving mentioned material to buyer. We have sent mail
to seller and mstc LKO (RK MAJI) but no satisfied reply has come. it is requested to
resolveour issue.(Query raised byAAFIYA ENTERPRISES,MODINAGAR, UP)
Buyer’s  grievances  were  forwarded  to  Seller  by  us.  UPSRTC  did  not  accept  the

allegations of buyer and replied to buyer by email dtd 09.08.2021. Seller has quoted
clause  16  of  T&C  "After  the  submission  of  bid(s)  by  the  Buyer,  a  presumption
would be drawn that the buyer has inspected the material and has satisfied himself
about  the  nature,  quantity,  quality,  other  technical  specifications,  taxes-duties  and
legalities  prior  to  the  e-auction.  No  complaint,  whatsoever,  on  the  points  referred
above, would be entertained after the submission of the bid.”
Query 23
Reply
EMDNOT  SHOW  MY  ACCOUNT  PL  CREDIT  MY  ACCOUNT  16.04.2021
20000  /-28.12.2020  20000  /-SBIN520362263466.  (Query  raised  bySWARA
INDUSTRIES,AURANGABAD MH)
There can be following reason for your Pre BidEMDbeing not credited.
a.One  NEFT/RTGS  Challan  will  be  valid  for  one  transaction  only,  if  multiple
transactions are made, only first will be reconciled.
b.Payment   should   be   made   within   3   days   after   generating   the   Challan   for
NEFT/RTGS otherwise the challan shall become invalid.
c.Bidder can remit the money to MSTC through any bank other than PNB.If any
bidder wants to remit the money through PNB, the same can be done only if its
PNB  details  are  registered  with  MSTC,  otherwise  such  deposit  will  not  be
entertained. Further for remitting the money through PNB to MSTC, Bidder has
to  ignore  virtual  Beneficiary  Bank  Account  Number  generated  through  portal
anduseactualBeneficiaryBankAccountNumberwhichis
3190002101015254.  After  deposit  through  PNB,  Bidder  has  to  send  i)  MSTC
Portal generated challan copy and ii) Deposit / Transaction reference number to
email  ids:  nmohan@mstcindia.co.in  and  aksingh@mstcindia.co.in  for  crediting
toEMDledger.
You may follow the above guideline at the time of pre bidEMDsubmission.
For  yourabove  matter  you  may  send  e-mail  tonmohan@mstcindia.co.in  and
aksingh@mstcindia.co.inwith  scanned  copy  of  MSTC  challan  and  your  bank
statement showing the debit of the amount from your account.
Query 24
Reply
We are not been able to get ourEMDrefund. When we click on theEMDRefund
tab, a message appears that the Cancelled cheque and Bank Mandate has not been
approved   by   the   ADMIN.   Please   look   into.(Query   raised   byM/s   Vriddhi
Associates,GUWAHATI Assam)
You are requested to follow the instruction provided in our web site, it is a one-time
process so that you may not face any problem while refunding yourEMD.
Query 25
Reply
EMDof  100K  wrongly  confiscated  by  seller  &  MSTC  WRO  for  lot  no  290  of
auction no 5000. We claim that we did not bid for lot at all, MSTC WRO not giving
proof of bidding matter pending since last many months.(Query raised byHindustan
Packaging,Vadodara, GJ)
WRO referred the matter toSystem Department,  HOand system department after
verificationconfirmed  that  the  bidding  was  done  from  the  sameIP.WRO  had
appraised the matter to buyer.
Query 26Sir, We are rubber re-claimers & use rubber scrap as raw material, sometimes when
we  participate  in  rubber  tyres  scrap  related  auctions,  we  are  to  submit  PPCB
documents & Passbook of Hazard Waste. But, this passbook is NOT APPLICABLE

Reply
on   us.   As   per   State   Pollution   Control   Board   SDO,   this   passbook   is   NOT
AVAILABLE for rubber scrap users. Hence, Please resolve our query to enable us
participating auctions.(Query raised byMinar Reclaimation Pvt Ltd,LUDHIANA)
For  PCB  items  a  buyer  has  to  submit  Consent  to  operate,  grant  authorization  and
PCB  passbook  to  the  concerned  region  from  which  they  have  registered.  In  case
passbook is not issued by PPCB, you may request PPCB to intimate that passbook
are not issued by them for rubbers.
Query 27
Reply
kindly issue the DO for the below E-Auction no 11159 Lot no 92.(Query raised by
KENZA TANNERS,VELLORE, TN)
DO had been issued by SRO.
Query28
Reply
It  would  be  nice  if  the  customer  service  and  the  replies  were  more  kind  and
elaborated.  Contacting  them  in  need  of  clearance  of  doubts  which  are  build  on
misunderstanding of the auction description sometimes, are not very smooth. Thank
you.(Query raised byJJ Auto Spares,Chennai)
Ageneral  advisorywillbe  issued  to  all  employees  of  MSTCto  attend  to  all
customers query promptly.